# gt_personal
Freeciv ruleset used for "personal" GT game, based on civ2civ3

Modifications:
research is based on tech upkeep, all techs cost same number of points. But
there is significant tech upkeep cost, this straigtens reasearch rate, as you
become more advanced and can output more research, you also have to use more of
it to keep existing techs, so it is kinda balanced. Upkeep is also "per city"
so city count matters, or to be more precise your average research output per
city is what matters most. At certain poit founding new cities becomes a
difficult proposition. As adding one city when you have lots of techs means you
must have other cities cover for drop in average science output you just
introduced. Upkeep will be 0.375 research point per city per tech. It is very
important to be left with many techs (~8) at the start of the game and not have
writing, thus being unable to build libraries to boost your research. Also
interesting consequence of how certain wonders work (increasing something for
all players) in ci2civ3 (Great library and Isac Newtons Collage the most),
means that completion of any of those wonders by any player will lead to
research spurr all over the world, from doubling of research points (or
economic improvement from better entertainers too).

Other significant changes:
all land and air units have 2x movement as per traditional GT,
sea units have 3x movements. Because there is lots of see, it is important. And
it is important that if someone has lucky close island, that other players
could be able to deny it/contend for it. Faster ships should allow that.

Masonry provides fortress, not constructions. Interesting things should come as
soon as possible. Fortress is inresting and usefull. Additionally fortres claim
territory (like default I think, not like civ2civ3).

Espionage and thus spy is much closer to start of tech tree (needs feudalism
and republic). To compensate spy cost is increased significantly. Also diplomat
cost is decreased as game has contactturns 0 = no diplomacy without embasy.
Diplomatic/spy subgame is another interesting facet of civ, and thus should not
be delayed to very distant game.

Caravans and trade routes are disabled. Trade routes are not configurale enough
to keep them, and keep the balance. One time bonus seems to be kinda ridiulous.
Also it will be more interesting without help build wonder, esp if I manage to
add some alternate victory condition.
